Dr. Melissa Tranquille: Now, the thing… I'm just recording this meeting. Now, the thing about using a reflective framework, although it's quite relative… relevant for this, ex… exercise, is that sometimes, depending on the framework, it does not allow you to dig deeper.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: So, that's the thing you have to be wary of. So, I'll give an example, like, some students might use Wolfie's, reflective model, you know, and what, so what, now what. And yes, it allows you to examine your experience from that angle, but it doesn't allow you now to really go deeper and feel
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: Further question your experience, because critical reflection is questioning your experience.
Nikiwe Mkhabela: E.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: And even examining limitations and shortcomings of theories that you're drawing on, that sort of thing.
Nikiwe Mkhabela: Yes, yes, please.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: If you… that's fine, but just bear in mind that you have to go do the extra to demonstrate critical reflection in your writing.
Nikiwe Mkhabela: Yes, yes. It helps a lot, because what was limiting for me was trying to fit everything into the structure of that reflection framework.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: Right.
Nikiwe Mkhabela: Yes, now that I can write a…
Nikiwe Mkhabela: in paragraph formats, as long as I'm covering those key areas, then I think I'll be able to unpack it thoroughly.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: Right, all right, very good, very good.
Nikiwe Mkhabela: Yes, I had missed the brief. I think the brief, for me, did confuse me, because it says…
Nikiwe Mkhabela: use reflective framework, and the mind was trying to then have that structure, even the subheadings, as you saw, that trying to break everything down.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: I was kidding.
Nikiwe Mkhabela: Guidelines of the refractive cycles.
Nikiwe Mkhabela: I'm not here.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: Alright, alright.
Nikiwe Mkhabela: Yes, and I also saw the feedback on the portfolio of evidence. There, again, one is trying to ensure that the content, I only selected content that will be readable. Oh, okay.
Nikiwe Mkhabela: Bouquets.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: Right, so you can reduce the size of the image so that you can meet the brief, the requirements of the brief, that's perfectly fine, but you just
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: notes in the… in the notes section. So, like, on my screen here, the notes section is below the slide here, so you put all your contextual somewhere here.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: That's where your contextual summary will go.
Nikiwe Mkhabela: Yeah, so that's below the slide, is it?
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: I… yes.
Nikiwe Mkhabela: No, I'm quite clear now.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: Right.
Nikiwe Mkhabela: Makes a big difference.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: And then you would just put any headings or subheadings, that sort of thing, on the slide.
Nikiwe Mkhabela: Yes, yes. Okay.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: Awesome. So, for the benefit of those of you who, who have not been able to attend this afternoon's session.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: So your individual report is 2,000 words, do pay attention to the word count, because I have received submissions in the past of a 1,000 word or a 1,500 word individual report, so please pay attention to that.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: Your introduction should be as concise as possible. Please do not need to elaborate and have an introduction of 200 to 300 words. 50 to 100 words is perfectly fine, right? Your critical reflection should be 1,500 words. The bulk of your word count should go to your critical reflection.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: However you choose to design, or lay out, or organize your paper.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: You must ensure that you respond to these three areas. Management tools and theories used, data sources and resources, and ability to work collaboratively with others. Now, let me speak briefly on each.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: The management tools and theories used. Now, some of you have submitted papers where you examine, project management approaches, to addressing the brief. That's perfectly fine, but you need to make that a lot more concise, because you definitely need to also pay attention to the technical aspect of the brief for this question. When it talks about the management tools and theories used.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: You need to consider the brief, again, to go back to see, well, okay, There's Danny coming in?
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: Awesome, Dani, welcome to you.
Danny: Hello.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: Hi, how you doing?
Danny: Not too bad. How about yourself?
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: Okay, I'm doing well, thank you.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: Well, thank you. Aside from sleep deprivation, but I'm doing well.
Danny: Okay.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: Awesome. So, yes, I was just, talking about the individual report, so you're spot on, you're right on time, and I was just emphasizing that it's a 2,000-word paper.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: the bulk of your word count should focus on your critical reflection, and the critical reflection should encompass… I'll just go through the two assessments quickly and answer any questions that you may have, Danny.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: So the individual report should respond to, one, management tools and theories, data sources and resources, and the ability to work collaboratively with others. So I was just saying that some students, for management tools and theories, I'll speak on each briefly, some students have touched on the project management approach that they use to respond to the brief.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: You know how they organized in order to respond to the brief, and that's fine, but you need to make this more concise, because this aspect of the brief also wants you to examine.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: The… you have to go back and have a look at what was the topic for each of those three executive project weeks, whether it was the bill to rent, or whatever the case may be.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: And what were some of the theories that you and your team considered in order to respond to the brief? And were there areas that were overlooked, for instance? And if there were areas that were overlooked or that were not considered.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: What sort of…
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: management tools and theories could then be considered, and why. So let me give a practical example. Maybe depending on, the topic that you have, what is the bill to rent, your group
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: performed a pastel analysis, but the group failed to carry out a Porter's 5 forces to really get a good understanding of their competitive environment. This is something that you would not bring up then.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: that the group failed to carry out a Porter's 54 so they could get a proper understanding of the competitive environment, and thereby determine how we could gain, some competitive advantage, you know? So this…
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: aspect of the brief, the management tools and theories, is focusing on what the brief was for those executive project weeks, how the team went about responding to it, so you highlight some of the
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: theories that you considered, put the five forces, stakeholder analysis, whatever the case may be. However, what were some of the gaps? Or at least one gap. You don't have to have
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: too many, at least one gap, bearing in mind the word count, you know, that was overlooked, or that wasn't considered, you know, or perhaps it could have been something that you mentioned. You know, it may have been the case where you did recommend the Porter's Five Forces. Again, I'm using this for example purposes.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: And the team thought that it was necessary, and the formative feedback was a feedback coming out of the formative feedback from the lecturer, from the facilitator. So, this is what the management tools and theories should focus on. Data sources and resources. Of course.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: The types of data that you and your team considered, you know, and…
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: were there other data types that your team could have considered, and why? You know, what perspective? For instance, industry reports, as an example. What perspective it would have allowed you to gain, and how you and your team went about gathering and synthesizing the large volumes of data. You know, for instance, you may find, and again, I'm using this as example purposes just to bring about understanding. You may find in your first executive project week.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: Everybody operated in silos. There was no set… there was no… there was no sort of critical discussion, you know, regarding the… regarding literature, regarding the research shared. We operated in silos.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: And everybody just shared, an extract to include in the presentation, and by so doing, you know, it did not help you, as well as the team, to be able to engage in a critical discussion and develop your own critical thinking or critical analysis skills. And by so doing, you would have
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: not, you know, being able to, not focus on or miss, miss out on other aspects of the brief that could have been considered. Another key thing you could consider as you're responding to data sources and resources are any biases that may have emerged, whether it's confirmation bias, you know,
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: what… you have to go back and look at that process, retrospectively, of how you and your team went about doing this, and were there any biases that emerged? Were those biases mitigated? Maybe they weren't. What could have been done?
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: Right? Because critical reflection is about questioning that experience, and what could have been done.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: And finally, the ability to work collaboratively with others, and I think this speaks to itself.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: When you look back from your first executive project week to your last executive project week, you know, any growth that took place for you, any learning that took place for you, any changes in approaches, you know, from one executive project week to another, in terms of how you went about collaborating with others, what sort of skills you drew on, you know, to collaborate with others, what sort of challenges you encountered, were those challenges addressed
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: Perhaps no, perhaps yes.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: They were addressed, but were they addressed properly? Perhaps X theory could have been considered, conflict resolution theory could have been considered to properly address this conflict. So if you mention an incident, you mention something coming up, it's good to at least… So, what I've found is that some students in their writing will say, okay,
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: We could have overcome all the challenges that we faced. Bam. That gives me no insight into what challenges are you talking about? You know, even if it's just one, you choose one to draw on. So, you elucidate on that, on that response, right? Something else I wanted to say with regards to collaborative working.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: Any strengths and weaknesses as well, it's good to… to draw on that. And if you were a leader, for instance, if you were a leader for any group, what leadership theory did you use, or did you consider, considered, or could have considered? And a drawback of that theory, because whenever you're sharing theories.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: If you want to score high in this paper, I would encourage you to also consider the limitations of those theories being shared, because this demonstrates critical thinking. If you were not a leader, what was your team member role? Drawing on theories, drawing on Bellman's team rules. And what's the limitation of that role? Did you find yourself falling into that trap, you know, of that very same limitation?
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: I hope that this makes sense, but this is as it pertains to the individual report. What I will do now is I'll pause, and also, please ensure that you draw reference. I think everyone who submitted, everyone, I believe, except one.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: it was connected to your portfolio of evidence, so well done, because you will be marked down if it's not connected to your portfolio of evidence. You need to draw on your portfolio of evidence at different points in your report. So what I will do is I'll pause for any questions on the individual report, and then we'll go to the portfolio of
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: evidence.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: Any questions on the individual report?
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: Does my explanation clarify any questions that you had, then?
Nikiwe Mkhabela: For me, Melissa, yes. Sorry, oh, Danny's mic is now. Okay. Yes, but for me, and based on the earlier chat we had, this does provide even better clarity now. We missed you.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: Okay, okay, excellent.
Nikiwe Mkhabela: I think that's what I can say. We missed you.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: Oh, yes, thank you, I missed you all too. Thank you. Yes, Danny?
Danny: Yeah, no, I don't have any general questions. My questions are more.
Danny: Very specific, so maybe take some at the end.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: Okay, no problem, Danny, that's no problem. Alright, so the portfolio of evidence…
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: write, 10 slides plus your cover slide. Please insert the dates of the Executive Project Week attended on the slides. And this especially is important for those of you who did not make a formative submission.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: I do hope that you will watch this recording, because you can still get lots of, insight from this recording to guide you in preparing your final assessment.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: There should be at least 4 items per slide, that is what is typical based on the brief. You're allowed to reduce the size of the image in order to meet that requirement of the brief.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: All of your images should be labeled, and the contextual summary of that, piece of evidence should be provided below the slide. And try to… to add some rich meaning behind each piece of evidence, right? So instead of saying, first synchronous session.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: You could say something like,
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: the opening session where we were breaking the ice, getting to know each other, which is important for, group cohesiveness. You know, that really gives it some rich meaning behind that piece of evidence.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: definitely will help to enrich in your portfolio. Again, the portfolio of evidence is connected to your individual reports. You will draw that
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: draw on your portfolio of evidence at different points in your report. Some evidence that you could consider, evidence of your contribution to weekly deliverables, evidence of your contribution as a team member, for instance, whether you had to write, make the submission on the VLE, or…
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: Email to your… to students, or whatever the case may be, your contribution as a team member, evidence of formative feedback from your facilitator.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: feedback from your peers, even if that's feedback during the plenary session, and you wrote it as a note, so you could take a screenshot of that note is also acceptable. Any critical incidents that you encountered, evidence of leadership role, you know, so if you played a leadership role, any evidence of that, of course, of your synchronous and asynchronous sessions.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: and of group communication and collaboration. So, for instance, if you're communicating on WhatsApp, on the VLE, or whatever the case may be, you could have evidence of those communications as well.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: So I think, in essence, this is the portfolio of evidence.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: I always say to students, some students complain and say, well, why do we have to do this? It's a useless exercise, but this is an exercise that no one should fail, right? This is an assessment, be grateful for it. You know, be grateful for it. It's an assessment that no one should fail. Everybody should get a distinction in this assessment, right? Because it's one of the easiest assessments. However, if you do draw on references, it's not required, but let me make this now, because students
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: tend to forget, I don't know why. If you do draw on any references, on any literature to support any point in your portfolio, please do not forget to include your bibliography to avoid academic offenses.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: Yeah, I think we covered… I think I covered everything.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: Yes, Danny?
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: Let me see if I can get your feedback open.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: Right, so if you want to ask me any questions that you may have.
Danny: Okay, thank you.
Danny: Can we stop the recording, though? Because I won't…
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: Sure.
Danny: No problem.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: That's fine.
Dr. Melissa Tranquille: And we'll just stop the recording.